# Upgrading The Spring Boot Personal Library Manager

In this exercise, we are going to start with a completed copy of the Spring Boot Personal Library Manager application,
and upgrade it to store the library items in a database, and allow us to add, update, and delete items from the library.

## Setting Up The Database

The first step in upgrading the application is to set up the database.  Open your mysql workbench and create a new schema
called `springboot2`.  You do not need to create any tables, or set anything up in the database as Spring Boot JPA will
do that for you.

### Updating the `application.properties` file

Next, we need to update the `application.properties` file to configure the database connection.  Open the
`src/main/resources/application.properties` file and modify the following line to reflect your password for the MySQL
server:

```properties
spring.datasource.password=root
```

You should also review the other properties in the `application.properties` file to ensure they are set correctly for your
environment.  The `spring.datasource.url` property should point to the `springboot2` schema you created earlier, and
the `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` property should be set to `update` to allow JPA to create and update the database
schema as needed.

## Reviewing the Existing Application

Take a few moments to review the existing application.  Under the main package, you will find the application class
(`SpringBoot2Application`) and three sub-packages:

- `Controllers`: Contains the REST controllers for the application
- `Models`: Contains the model classes for the application
- `Repositories`: Contains the database access repository classes for the application (currently empty.)

The current set of controllers only allow reading from each of the three library item types (books, albums, and movies),
and it reads them from a hard-coded list of items in the controller.  We will be replacing this with a database by
implementing and using JPA repository classes.

## Updating the Models

### Adding `id` members to the models

The first step in updating the models is to add an `id` member to each of the models.  This will allow us to uniquely
identify each item in the database.  You should add this as a `private int id` member to each of the models, and provide
getters and setters for the `id` member.  You should also update the constructors for each of the models to include the
new `id` member.

### Adding JPA Annotations to the models

Next, you should add JPA annotations to each of the models.

1. Add import statements for the JPA annotations at the top of each model class:

```java
import jakarta.persistence.Entity;
import jakarta.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import jakarta.persistence.GenerationType;
import jakarta.persistence.Id;
```

1. Add the `@Entity` annotation to each of the models.  This tells JPA that the model is an entity that should be
   stored in the database.
2. Add the `@Id` annotation to the `id` member of each model.  This tells JPA that the `id` member is the primary key
   for the entity.
3. Also add the `@GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)` annotation to the `id` member of each model.
   This tells JPA that the `id` member should be automatically generated by the database when a new entity is created.

```java
@Entity
public class Book {
   @Id
   @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
   private int id;
   // ...
}
```

And that's it for the models.  We do not need to add `@Column` annotations to the other members of the models, as JPA
will automatically choose reasonable defaults for the column names and types based on the member names and types.

## Adding JPA Repositories

Next, we need to add JPA repositories for each of the models.  JPA repositories are interfaces that extend the
`JpaRepository` interface, and provide methods for accessing the database.  Spring Boot will automatically create
implementations of these interfaces for us.

Add a new package under the main package called `Repositories`.  This is where we will be adding the JPA
repositories for the application.

Right-click on the `Repositories` package and create a new Java Interface called `BookRepository`.  This interface
should extend the `JpaRepository` interface, and should be parameterized with the `Book` model class and the type of
the `id` member of the `Book` model class (which is `Integer`.)

```java
package com.example.springBoot2.repositories;

import com.example.springBoot2.models.Book;
import org.springframework.data.jpa.repository.JpaRepository;

public interface BookRepository extends JpaRepository<Book, Integer> {
}
```

Once you have created the `BookRepository` interface, you should add a similar interface for the `Album` and `Movie`

## Updating the Controllers

The next step is to update the controllers to use the JPA repositories to access the database.

### Setting Up To Use The JPA Repositories

For ALL of the controllers, we will be making the following changes:

1. Remove all code from the inside of the controller class.
2. Add private final fields for the JPA repository that corresponds to the controllers.
3. Add a constructor to the controllers that takes the JPA repository as an argument and assigns it to the private
   final field.
4. Add a `@RequestMapping` annotation to the class to specify the base URL for the controller.
   (i.e., `/books`, `/albums`, `/movies`)

Example for the `BookController`:

```java
package com.example.springBoot2.controllers;

import com.example.springBoot2.models.Book;
import com.example.springBoot2.repositories.BookRepository;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;

import java.util.List;

@RestController
@RequestMapping("/books")
public class BookController {
    private final BookRepository bookRepository;

    public BookController(BookRepository bookRepository) {
        this.bookRepository = bookRepository;
    }
}

```

### Implementing The Methods

1. Implement the `getAllItems` method in each of the controllers.  This method should call the `findAll` method on the
   JPA repository and return the result, and should be annotated with `@GetMapping`
2. Implement the `getItem` method in each of the controllers.  This method should call the `findById` method on the
   JPA repository and return the result, and should be annotated with `@GetMapping('/{id}')` and have a mapped
   `@PathVariable` parameter for the `id` of type `int`.
3. Implement the `addItem` method in each of the controllers.  This method should call the `save` method on the
   JPA repository and return the result, and should be annotated with `@PostMapping` with a `@RequestBody` parameter
4. Implement the `updateItem` method in each of the controllers.  This method should call the `save` method on the
   JPA repository and return the result, and should be annotated with `@PutMapping('/{id}')` with a `@PathVariable`
   parameter for the `id` of type `int` and a `@RequestBody` parameter.
5. Implement the `deleteItem` method in each of the controllers.  This method should call the `deleteById` method on the
   JPA repository and should be annotated with `@DeleteMapping('/{id}')` with a `@PathVariable` parameter for the `id`
   of type `int`.

## Testing The Application

Once you have completed the project, and have successfully built the application and have it running, you should test
the application by adding, updating, and deleting items from the library.  You can use Postman to test the application
by sending HTTP requests to the appropriate endpoints.

A postman collection export file is included in the project directory.  You can import this file into Postman to get
a set of pre-configured requests for testing this application.

After importing the Postman collection, run the "Create" requests for each of the item types (books, albums, and movies.)
Then run the "Get All" requests to verify that the items were created successfully.

You can also open MySQL Workbench and browse the tables in the `springboot2` schema to verify that the items were
created successfully in the database.